from the day of the shooting it has been
consistently reported by eyewitnesses
and there were many eyewitnesses that
Nipsey Hussle was shot dead because he
insulted a man to his face he insulted a
man calling him a snitch Nipsey Hussle
did not die for no reason he did not die
because of some grand conspiracy can we
just be honest about the fact that
Nipsey Hussle died because he chose to
insult a man to his face instead of even
just having a conversation with him
instead of even just taking the time to
ask a question instead of posing a
question as an insult now I'm making
this video not so much because I've been
following the story in hip-hop media
which I have been and not so much
because I'm disappointed by the
sanctimonious reverential and dishonest
commentary on the slaying that I see
from hip-hop media meaning this video
now because I recently did a little bit
of research into the history of the duel
and what a strange strangely important
role dueling had in history United
States of America
and the writing of the American
Constitution and you know at that time
just a couple decades leading up the
American Constitution American war for
independence there were debates about
whether or not to make dueling illegal
or how the law really could effectively
discourage the duel and you'd see these
debates again I just a couple days ago I
was looking at them primary source tax
discussing this stuff people would say
well what do you expect men care more
about their honor than their lives if
men are willing to risk death to defend
their reputation or to settle a point of
honour how are you gonna discourage them
by threatening to send them to prison or
asking them to pay a fine when they do
this when they fight each other to the
death in a duel over a point of Honor
and in a lot of ways this is a question
in Western culture we've never settled
as brutal and you know barbaric as it
was for this young man his guilt hasn't
proven but there is a suspect this young
man is shoot and kill
Nipsey Hussle what what other justice do
you think he had recourse to in his life
now there's a broader cultural question
here and I think the question has gotten
worse because the internet I've said
this a million times this channel but
like five years ago I said this I've
often said to people on the internet
look if you wouldn't say it to somebody
in a coffee shop face-to-face don't say
on the Internet or don't say it on the
phone there's that other case of a
rapper Chia Li so Chi Li was a rapper
way back in the day and he shot a man
dead because of an insult that was said
over the telephone you know a momentary
fleeing insult he felt deprived of his
honor and dignity whatever want to say
um you know if you wouldn't say it to
somebody's face in a coffee shop don't
say it but the problem with the internet
is it's not just that it gives you this
vehicle or this medium like right now in
this comment section for you to insult
me but it's become the primary mode of
communication that most people are now
familiar with they're from they spend
more time talking to people like over a
microphone while playing a video game
you know those headsets people play
video games and they chat over mic while
doing it or chat with people via discord
or chat with you if I ask Skype or via
Facebook messages or via twitter twitter
messages or cell phone messages people
are just they have much more practice
expressing themselves in these very
shallow very unreal and often very
vicious
and over-the-top media I noticed this
you know I really the first time my life
to thought about this was when I had an
office job in in Southeast Asia but it
was it was an office job where I came
into an office every day and more
suit-and-tie whatever was it was an
office for this video it's not that I'm
covering it out this is no point
describing the rest of the job and the
other people at this office it just
struck me one day they don't know how to
chair a meeting they don't know how to
sit down at a table at a rectangular
table let's say okay these are the
issues we have to resolve in the last
couple of months this went well this
went badly you know I'm happy about this
and not acted with that express
themselves and with its constructive and
there are ways at a meeting that you can
you can let someone know you're
disappointed in them or let them know
what you want to do it's like all these
people know how to do is either remain
sullen and silent and build up that
resentment or they know how to lash out
you know and just say the most vicious
insulting things to you possible I mean
I've had so many reactions people
internet including you know voice and
video things like Skype or I'm talking
to people I say to them like would you
say that someone in a in a coffee shop I
had a worst case you know maybe they
would cuz again it's just this breakdown
it's not even a breakdown in morality
it's not break I just think it's a lack
of practice my grandfather's generation
they were not angels my grandfather's
they spent so many hours just sitting
around smoking cigarettes drinking
alcohol and playing cards and chatting
but they had practice with that and the
skills you build up playing euchre or
playing poker or whatever and chatting
in a circle those are skills you can
apply to having a board meeting and I
hate to say it but those are skills you
can apply also to meeting someone on the
block
face to face and trying to express it
you know
you know I can imagine what if you lose
you say look man you know
I'm happy you stopped by the shop but
you know I've heard a lot of good things
about you I don't know what's true sir
I've heard a lot of bad things about you
I misspoke I don't know what's true I
know what's false you know you know
let's let's break it down some people
say you know you've got to say the
most-played boss some people say that
you're a snitch or whatever all the
eyewitnesses accounts just indicate this
was an incredibly tense incredibly
insulting conversation and nipsey hussle
thought he could get away with it and he
was wrong
it cost him his life and it won't just
cost him his life obviously it's gonna
cost both men their lives I mean whoever
it was who shot him there is a suspect
sooner or later this guy's gonna end up
in jail it's gonna ruin two people's
lives just to have that momentary
satisfaction but you know the quote ODB
this ain't something new that came out
of nowhere no I mean centuries ago this
is something we were struggling with and
you know most of the kind of fables and
fairy tales and legal cases concern
aristocrats and politicians I was saying
you know several of the men who became
president United States fought in duels
like despite the fact you had a law
against murder it's like oh yeah yeah
but that doesn't count when it's a duel
it's just ridiculous this culture of men
resolving their differences by shooting
each other
so goes on the only difference is guns
were always deadly back there you had a
better chance of better chance of
surviving taking a bullet in the arm
mind you quality of medicine was a lot
worse so I don't know I don't know maybe
maybe I'm wrong but the odds of
surviving you know this isn't something
new
the problem isn't new but the solution
is ancient the solution is to really
raise people with an awareness of a code
of honor and dignity where even if I
don't respect you I am gonna treat you
with respect because I'm not gonna
violate my own code I'm not gonna lower
myself I'm not going to do that it's
beneath my day
to treat you in a certain way even if I
know something bad about you or I don't
know you would all I don't have a reason
to treat you with respect and obviously
that's something that's that slipped
away in the transition from the dark
ages you know to the 21st century
don't get me wrong 99.9% of what Dark
Ages I'm glad that we have the lights on
now when it's over and were and we're
never going back but don't tell me don't
tell me that Nipsey Hussle is a victim
of quote-unquote the hood or
quote-unquote the culture or you know
don't make him out to be an angel I mean
you know what Charlemagne was just
saying just heard it blows my mind
claiming show-me said that this guy was
on a mission from God to uplift the
neighborhood all this nonsense you've
you've you've got to be kidding me okay
Nipsey Hussle and the suspect allegedly
they were both members of the same gang
not just not just from the same culture
or the same subculture but in theory
these guys they knew the code right so
you know you want to call someone a
snitch to their face you want to
disrespect someone that way you want to
violate someone that way well guess what
it was true centuries ago and it's still
true right now many men care more about
honor and dignity than they care about
the difference between life and death
and that is why ultimately there is no
prison sentence there is no death
sentence that can ever really
disincentivize this kind of behavior
what we need is positive motivation
people to know and openly communicate
what their codes of honor are what their
expectations are from one another and we
need to develop a culture of asking
questions when you meet someone when you
meet me you may have heard bad things
about me on youtube or on Facebook or
whatever don't leap to a conclusion and
making accusations or insult me rephrase
your insult in the form of a question
and then it can be the start of a
conversation instead of the ending of
one it can resolve hostilities rather
than asking